# ZMK Firmware and Keyboard Layout

## Firmware

This repository contains the board definitions for the [nightliner](https://github.com/michaelrommel/nightliner) mechanical, split keyboard. Since these are two boards with an MCU directly on the PCB, there are no shield definitions, just two boards. They live under the config/boards/arm/nightliner path.

The firmware can be built locally, if all of ZMK's and Zephyr's toolchain are installed using the command lines:

```
west build -p -d build/left -b nightliner_left -- -DZMK_CONFIG="${HOME}/Software/keyboard/zmk-config/config"
west build -p -d build/right -b nightliner_right -- -DZMK_CONFIG="${HOME}/Software/keyboard/zmk-config/config"
```

But also as designed by the good people from the ZMK project, a github workflow is triggered on every push that changes the firmware relevant files.


## Keymap

The board directory also contains my default keymap definition. The graphical representation below is directly generated from the keymap file using [Cem Aksoylar's](https://github.com/caksoylar) excellent [keymap-drawer](https://github.com/caksoylar/keymap-drawer) tool.

The images are also autogenerated using github workflows.

The keymap is currently very simple, will probably evolve over time, once I get the keyboard fully up and running. Here is a representation of it:

[nightliner keymap](images/nightliner.png)

For some configuration aspects it is important to know, what the exact sequential number of each key is. I used the [keymap-layout-tools](https://nickcoutsos.github.io/keymap-layout-tools/) helper app from Nick Coutsos. The keypositions representation is here: [nightliner key positions](images/nightliner_keypositions.png).

